README.md, before:

# YaMDb API

YaMDb is a fictional service where users can post reviews for titles (movies and shows, music, and books) and comment on reviews. The service lets you define genres and categories for titles.

This project is a RESTful YaMDb API for interacting with the YaMDb service. The project is implemented as a multi-contaner Docker application with three services: `web` (the application itself), `db` (PostgreSQL), and `nginx` running in separate containers.

The application image is available on Docker Hub: https://hub.docker.com/r/sergeyrodin/yamdb.

## Features

- CRUD for titles
- CRUD for reviews and comments
- CRUD for genres and categories
- Get reviews for titles
- Get comments for reviews

## Technologies

Python, Django, Nginx, Gunicorn, PostgreSQL

## Installation and usage

> Make sure that you have Docker installed: https://docs.docker.com/get-started/#download-and-install-docker

1. Clone the repository.
2. To start the containers, change to the project directory and run `docker-compose up`.
3. Open a new terminal and run the following:
   - Apply migrations:
     - `docker-compose exec web python manage.py makemigrations`
     - `docker-compose exec web python manage.py makemigrations api`
     - `docker-compose exec web python manage.py migrate --no-input`
   - Create a superuser: `docker-compose exec web python manage.py createsuperuser`
   - Collect static files: `docker-compose exec web python manage.py collectstatic --no-input`
4. To test that it works, open http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/

To stop the containers, run `docker-compose stop`.

To remove the containers, run `docker-compose down`.

If you made any changes, run `docker-compose up -d --build` to force-build the images.

## API guide

### Authorization

> Prior to attempting the authorization, configure the mail server settings in `settings.py`.

1. To get access to the API, make a POST request with your email address to `/api/v1/auth/email`, after which you will receive a confirmation code.
2. Submit a POST request to `/api/v1/auth/token` with your email address and the confirmation token. In response, you'll receive a JWT token.
3. When calling the API, pass the token in the header as `Authorization: Bearer [token]`.

### Example requests and responses

Sample POST request to `/api/v1/titles/2/reviews/`:

```
{
	"text": "I can't stop watching Friends, it makes me feel better when I'm down. Amazing show.",
	"score": 10
}
```

Sample response:

```
{
	"id": 2,
	"title": "Friends",
	"author": "sergeyrodin",
	"text": "I can't stop watching Friends, it makes me feel better when I'm down. Amazing show.",
	"score": 10,
	"pub_date": "2021-04-08T15:21:17.556753Z"
}
```

Sample POST request to `/api/v1/titles/2/reviews/2/comments/` to add a comment to a review:

```
{
	"text": "You're on point!",
}
```

Sample response:

```
{
	"id": 2,
	"review": "I can't stop watching Friends, it makes me feel better when I'm down. Amazing show.",
	"author": "rachelgreen",
	"text": "You're on point!",
	"pub_date": "2021-04-08T15:25:01.555817Z"
}
```

## Complete API reference

The full docs are available at http://127.0.0.1/redoc/ or inside the `/static` directory.

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

Commit message:

Included a command to populate with data

README.md, after:

# YaMDb API

YaMDb is a fictional service where users can post reviews for titles (movies and shows, music, and books) and comment on reviews. The service lets you define genres and categories for titles.

This project is a RESTful YaMDb API for interacting with the YaMDb service. The project is implemented as a multi-contaner Docker application with three services: `web` (the application itself), `db` (PostgreSQL), and `nginx` running in separate containers.

The application image is available on Docker Hub: https://hub.docker.com/r/sergeyrodin/yamdb.

## Features

- CRUD for titles
- CRUD for reviews and comments
- CRUD for genres and categories
- Get reviews for titles
- Get comments for reviews

## Technologies

Python, Django, Nginx, Gunicorn, PostgreSQL

## Installation and usage

> Make sure that you have Docker installed: https://docs.docker.com/get-started/#download-and-install-docker

1. Clone the repository.
2. To start the containers, change to the project directory and run `docker-compose up`.
3. Open a new terminal and run the following:
   - Apply migrations:
     - `docker-compose exec web python manage.py makemigrations`
     - `docker-compose exec web python manage.py makemigrations api`
     - `docker-compose exec web python manage.py migrate --no-input`
   - Create a superuser: `docker-compose exec web python manage.py createsuperuser`
   - Collect static files: `docker-compose exec web python manage.py collectstatic --no-input`
4. To test that it works, open http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/
5. Populate the database with the initial data by running `docker-compose exec web python manage.py loaddata fixtures.json`.

To stop the containers, run `docker-compose stop`.

To remove the containers, run `docker-compose down`.

If you made any changes, run `docker-compose up -d --build` to force-build the images.

## API guide

### Authorization

> Prior to attempting the authorization, configure the mail server settings in `settings.py`.

1. To get access to the API, make a POST request with your email address to `/api/v1/auth/email`, after which you will receive a confirmation code.
2. Submit a POST request to `/api/v1/auth/token` with your email address and the confirmation token. In response, you'll receive a JWT token.
3. When calling the API, pass the token in the header as `Authorization: Bearer [token]`.

### Example requests and responses

Sample POST request to `/api/v1/titles/2/reviews/`:

```
{
	"text": "I can't stop watching Friends, it makes me feel better when I'm down. Amazing show.",
	"score": 10
}
```

Sample response:

```
{
	"id": 2,
	"title": "Friends",
	"author": "sergeyrodin",
	"text": "I can't stop watching Friends, it makes me feel better when I'm down. Amazing show.",
	"score": 10,
	"pub_date": "2021-04-08T15:21:17.556753Z"
}
```

Sample POST request to `/api/v1/titles/2/reviews/2/comments/` to add a comment to a review:

```
{
	"text": "You're on point!",
}
```

Sample response:

```
{
	"id": 2,
	"review": "I can't stop watching Friends, it makes me feel better when I'm down. Amazing show.",
	"author": "rachelgreen",
	"text": "You're on point!",
	"pub_date": "2021-04-08T15:25:01.555817Z"
}
```

## Complete API reference

The full docs are available at http://127.0.0.1/redoc/ or inside the `/static` directory.

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)
